# Encoder-Decoder for SERDES

## Standard 8b/10b encoder-decoder
The standard 8b/10b encoder is required in the SERDES interface for mantaining DC balancing in the serialized data stream that is to be transmitted as an analog signal using the transmitter. It also ensures higher data transitions that are required for the proper functioning of the Clock Data Recovery (CDR) in the receiver side of the SERDES module. Additionally it includes the control input, that makes a seperate encoding different from the normal encoding, used in the SERDES for special purposes such as Comma Detection and some other testing that can be done wherever required.<br/>
The 8b/10b encoding is done based on the standard table available.<br/>
The complete module is implemented in the Verilog HDL and RTL synthesis was done using Synopsys tool.<br/>
The encoder has a dspin and dispout that are used to mantain the DC balancing. dispin is an output pin that is directly connected to the input pin dispin. Disparity is defined as the difference in number of 0s and 1s in the final 10bit encoded output. The encoding table is made in such a way that the 10-bit encoded data for any given 8-bit input can have a disparity of 0, -2, or +2. Most of the cases it is 0. Incase a given input gives a +2 disparity the dispout and hence dispin will be changed such that it is ensured that the next encoding is either of 0 disparity or -2 disparity and not +2. Same is for the case when the output is of -2 disparity. This ensures that that at any given point of time the serialized data output of the serializer after encoder will give an output having a difference between the number of 0s and 1s at max 2.  

## 16b/20b encoder-decoder
Combination of higher number of encoders is not very straight forward as we now want that the disparity is mantained among the two encoder outputs and they cannot completely function independently. In such a case the dispout of the first encoder output need to be connected to the second dispin input and vice-versa. If we make the encoders to function independently, then the output diparity will now be maximum of 4 insted of 2, and hence the purpose of DC balancing is somewhat compromised.
